If the Nationalists received sympathy from the UK and the USA – but little else – until well after Pearl Harbor, the Soviet Union, threatened directly by Japan in Manchuria, would provide critical aid in the first two years of the War of Resistance. The cooperation between the Soviets and the Nationalists was purely pragmatic. The Nationalists had thrown Soviet advisors out of China during the Northern Expedition and executed thousands of Communists. Even so, after Japan’s capture of Manchuria, Japan was a common threat. The two sides initiated secret negotiations in Geneva to restore diplomatic relations. In December 1932, Yan Huiqing, the Nationalist negotiator, and Maxim Litvinov, the Soviet negotiator, exchanged public diplomatic notes to announce that diplomatic relations had been resumed. But Chiang wanted an alliance, and sent the diplomatic historian Jiang Tingfu to Moscow to begin discussions to that end. Jiang was profoundly suspicious of Soviet intentions, fearing – rightly – that their policy aimed to entrap Japan in China, but he was also convinced that China needed Soviet aid and that national interest rather than ideology should determine foreign policy. His diplomatic views were shaped by his belief that the Qing Dynasty’s less-than-adroit policy towards Britain had been a cause of the First Opium War. Appointed ambassador in August 1936, Jiang Tingfu masterminded negotiations that led a year later to a treaty of non-aggression, under which the Soviets delivered a vast amount of military aid once war broke out and extended China a credit line worth US$100 million.25