---
tags: FtO, g0v-intl
---
# 20240523 FtO organizers meeting notes

## Previous meeting (5/5) notes 
Questions raised:
- How can we ensure a stronger understanding of COC?
- How can we allow people from minority groups to feel safe in FtO?
- How to help each community better - language issue?

Suggestions:
- COC contract signing at registration
- Designate one person from each community to support COC related issues e.g. receive feedback on google form, handle complaints and issues, ensuring privacy.
- Make COC reading more important (reading it aloud in mother tongue)
- Allow people to communicate in their own language
    - UDTalk can be pre-configured with a custom vocabulary (each language community will need to work on making this list)
[name=eunsoo]

## Meeting agenda
- Sponsorship promotion
- “Digital Democracy Through Civic Tech” Research Project meetup [name=chihao]